Jenkins basics and application deployment on Jenkins

Theory: Jenkins offers a simple way to set up a continous integration & continous delivery environment for almost any combination of languages and source code repositories. Using pipelines, as well as automating other routine development tasks.

While Jenkins doesn't eliminate the need to create scripts for indivisual steps, it does give you a faster and more robust way to integrate your entire chain of build, test, and deployment tools than you can easily. build yourself.

How Jenkins work? 
Jenkins is distributed as a WAR archieve & as installer packages for the major operating systems, as a Homebrew package, as a Docker image, and as source code. The source code is mostly Java, with a few Groovy, Ruby, and Antlr files.

You can run the Jenkins WAR standalone or as a servlet in a Java application server such as Tomcat. In either case, it produces a web user interface & accepts calls to its REST API.

When you run Jenkins for the first time, it creates an administrative user with which a long random password, you paste into its initial webpage to Can unlock the installation.

Steps to install Jenkins on Windows

1. Install Java Development Ket (JDK) Download JDK 11 & choose windows 32 bit or 64 bit according to your systern configuration. Click on "accept the license agreement"."

2. Set the path for Environmental Variable for JDK. Go to System Properties. Under the "Advanced" tab, select "Environmental Variables".

Select "new" Then copy the path of the JDK folder & paste it in the corresponding value field. Under system variables, set up a bin folder for JDK Go to command prompt and type following to check if Java has been successfully 

3. Download & install Jenkins.
Download Jenkins. Under LTS, click on windows. After file is downloaded, unzip it. Click on the folder & install it Select "finish" once done.

4. Run Jenkins on Local Host 8080
Once installed, Open web browser & type "localhost:8080" Enter credentials & login. If you install for the first time, the dashboard will ask you to install the recommended plugins.

5. Jenkins Server Interface

New item allows to create a new project. Build History shows the status of your project builds. Manage System deals with the various configurations of the system.
------------------------------------------------
