Puppet is an open source DevOps system management

It is used to centralized & automate the configuration management procedure. This tool is developed using Ruby DSL(Domain-specific Language)

Puppet tool deploys, configures, & manages servers

With the help of the automation, puppet enables system administrations to operate easier & faster.

Puppet implements infrastructure as a code, which means that you can test the environment for accurate deployment

Puppet uses the client-server paradigm, where one system in any cluster works as the servers, called the puppet master & works a client on nodes called a slave.
 
Features of Puppet.

1) Platform Support:
Puppet is compatible with all platforms the support Ruby, like Microsoft Windows.

2) Scalable:
The puppet was developed in 2006, therefore many different organization, including medium & large have deployed puppet & hence it has a large scalability.

3) Document:
Puppet provides a large number of well-developed wiki Pages with detailed documentations.

4)Idempotency:
After deploying a configuration on any machine, the puppet keeps verifying those configurations in certain intervals.

5) Open Source:
A puppet is an open-source tools, because of this feature, it is easy to extend it to build customer libraries & modules. 

6)Reporting Complience:
It provides you realtime visibility in to the effects of changes, which allows you to see whats going on your infrastructure

7)Cost Effective:
What have You many number of systems & want to make some minor changes the puppet helps to reduce the effort & cost.

8)Faster:
Puppet allows Devops professionals & system admins to work more quickly & effectively.


Advantages of Puppet: 
1.Elimination time-consuming, complex & stressfed manual configurations of the infrastructure.
2. Automates the process of configurations, controlling and manages large numbers of servers & other infrastructure. 
3. Eliminates complex error-prone tasks of automating the infrastructure deployment & configuration. 4. It is inexpensive method of solving the configuration bottlenecks & latency in the speed.
